= Assetable

Easily add Assets to your Rails app, including images, videos and almost any kind of documents. Includes an uploader, media gallery and much more.

This is still an early beta release. While the majority of uploading works, the media gallery selector is still in an early alpha.

=== Installation

==== Add the Gem

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'assetable'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install assetable
    
    
==== Migrations    
Run the migrations

    $ rake db:migrate
    

==== Assets for the uploader and UI

Add the Stylesheet and Javascripts to your project:
    
    # Sass syntax
    @import assetable
    
    # Assetable uses some of bootstrap's UI. You can import the partial bootstrap
    # library to add some extra styles to the uploader
    # @import bootstrap
    
Javascript:

    //= require assetable/assetable


==== Configuration

If you want to use fog, you can easily add the two initializers:

    # initializers/assetable.rb
    Assetable.configure do |config|
      config.storage = :fog
    end
    
    # initializers/carrierwave.rb
    # Checkout carrierwave's documentation for more options and details
    CarrierWave.configure do |config|
      config.fog_credentials = {
        :provider               => 'AWS',
        :aws_access_key_id      => AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
        :aws_secret_access_key  => AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
        :region                 => S3_REGION,
      }
      config.fog_directory  = S3_NAMESPACE
      config.fog_public     = true
      config.fog_attributes = {'Cache-Control'=>'max-age=315576000'}
      config.asset_host = S3_CLOUDFRONT_DOMAIN
    end

This is only required if you're using Fog. Otherwise, Assetable will default to uploading locally.


== Usage

Using assetable is incredibly easy. 

=== Asset Attachments

Assetable allows you to easily attach and asset to a resource. This creates a join between your record and an asset through an asset_attachment table. You can add as many as you would like to any given model.

==== Single Asset Attachment 

For a single image or asset, simply add: "assetable" to your model:

    class User < ActiveRecord::Base
      assetable :avatar
    end
    
You can name the asset attachment whatever you would like, in this case I used "avatar" but you can replace that with whatever you want.

On the frontend, you can simple call @user.avatar to access the file. Note that @user.avatar will be a ActiveRecord object for Asset. The file itself will be accessible through @user.avatar.filename and since we're using carrierwave, you can access the different version as you normally would, e.g. @user.avatar.filename.thumbnail, etc.

==== Multiple Asset Attachments

For multiple attachments, simple pass more attributes to assetable. In theory, you can pass unlimited attributes to assetable and this will create an attachment for each.

    def User < ActiveRecord::Base
      assetable :avatar, :background, :hero
    end
  
This will create multiple attachments to the user model, you can easily call them by:

    @user.avatar #=> Asset Object
    @user.avatar.filename #=> "/path/to/filename.extension"
    # note this is a carrierwave uploader object, so you can access all of your versions
    @user.avatar.filename.thumbnail
    
    @user.background
    @user.hero


=== Gallery Attachments
Assetable allows you to attach galleries to any object. A gallery is a collection of assets grouped together for a specific record. 

==== Single Gallery

You can easily add a gallery to your object:
    
    class Project < ActiveRecord::Base
      galleryable
    end

That is all you need to do to attach a gallery to your object. On the front-end, you can easily access your gallery and the attached assets:

    # in your view or controller
    @project.gallery #=> Gallery Object
    @project.gallery.assets #=> Collection of Assets


==== Multiple Galleries

You can add numerous galleries to a single object. Just as we did with assets, you can declare as many galleries through the galleryable:

    class Project < ActiveRecord::Base
      galleryable :another_gallery, :one_more_gallery
    end
    
By default, galleryable will create a default :gallery. So you don't have to every pass :gallery or any arguments if you only want one gallery. This is great for multiple gallery records.

You can easily call these galleries:

    @project.another_gallery #=> Gallery object
    @project.another_gallery.assets #=> Asset collection
    
    @project.one_more_gallery
    @project.one_more_gallery.assets
    

=== Adding the Uploader

In order to start uploading assets, you'll need to add the uploader to your form. You can easily add an uploader or gallery using a simple form helper.

==== Single Asset Uploader

    = form_for @user do |f|
      ...
      = f.input :avatar, as: :uploader
      ...

    # You can also pass typical params to the uploader
    = form_for @user do |f|
      = f.inputer :avatar, as: :uploader, input_html: { class: "classname", id: "something-else" }
      
Make sure the assetable uploader javascript is added.


==== Gallery Uploader

    = form_for @user do |f|
      ...
      = f.input :gallery, as: :gallery
      ...
      
It's that easy!


=== Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
